---
layout: post
title:  "DeepTrace: Generic Deep Framework for Cross-Domain Univariate and Multivariate Time Series Forecast"
date:   2018-09-13
excerpt: "Accurate Time Series Forecasting without feature engineering or data preprocessing."
project: false
publication: true
tag:
- AAAI 
- Time Series
- Bi-Directional
- LSTM
- CNN
feature: /assets/img/sky1.jpg
comments: true
---
### Abstract 
One of the major tasks of a time series analyst is to understand the historical patterns and trends, carefully engineer & select the factors impacting the time series and train a model to utilize this information to forecast future values of the series. Due to its sensitive and dynamic nature, a time series data usually undergoes several data pre-processing steps like stationarity transform, seasonality transform, noise removal etc. before the training the model to achieve greater accuracies. 
In this paper, we propose a generic framework of model architecture that could work across all classes of time series datasets called DeepTrace. It has three main task-specific components - Temporal Feature Generator, Short-term Sequence Analyzer and Learning Component. The main goal of the framework is to eliminate the feature engineering task without compromising on the accuracy of state-of-art models and algorithms for each class of data. To achieve the above mentioned goal, all time series datasets are considered to be auto-correlative and no data preprocessing techniques were deployed. Bidirectional training concept was ported to the convolutional layers of Temporal Feature Generator .i.e. contextual past and future frames were provided parallelly and independently to the model during the training phase. However, to test the efficiency of DeepTrace in real-world scenarios, during the testing phase, the future contextual frames are dropped out.
 The proposed framework outperforms state-of-art algorithms and concepts in time series forecasting. Substantial experiments on various time series datasets from different domains show the effectiveness of the proposed frame-work. The paper also propounds unique architectural variants of the proposed network and their efficacies in handling timeseries datasets with unique characteristics.
